As of Monday 01 June 2020, Illinois has had 5,458 death cases for COVID-19, ranking 6 in the nation. Currently it has 24,308 fewer deaths than New York, which is the leading state for death cases. Based on the data from the past ten days, cumulative deaths of this region is in a rising channel and there is no sign of breakthrough. 

According to the lastest statistics, growth rate has considerably fallen by 47. 5% this week, suggesting a downward trend and a sign of improvement. Identically, according to the lastest statistics, newly confirmed cases has enormously fallen by 39. 1% this week, suggesting a downward trend and a sign of improvement. The situation is getting better, maybe it won't be long before people get back to normal daily lives. In addition, fatality rate, which is currently 5. 8%, has had a considerably rise of 38. 1% compared to last week. On the contrary, this week, newly death cases was reported to be 546, from which a remarkably decrease of 16. 6% could be observed compared to last week. Finally, cumulative death cases recorded 5,458 in total. In like manner, cumulative confirmed cases count reached 121,666. People living in related regions shall take protective measures when appropriate, and keep track of the latest news. 

Moreover, even in the same state, some counties are in less optimistic situations compared with its neighbors. Cook county was the unenviable leader of newly fatality cases in Illinois on Monday 01 June 2020, amounting to about 50 percent of the state's total newly fatality cases. Cook recorded 16 newly fatality cases Monday 01 June 2020, giving it a little more than the 4 newly fatality cases in Winnebago county, who previously ranked 17 in the state. On the other end of the list, Ogle County has 1 newly fatality cases on Monday 01 June 2020. Still, it has far fewer newly fatality cases tied to COVID-19 than all the other counties in Illinois. In conclusion, the epidemic in Ogle is relatively controllable and preventable, while those of Cook and Winnebago are much more serious. Citizens living in Cook and Winnebago should strictly follow the instructions of state governments and reduce unnecessary outdoor activities. 
